[Applause]
hey guys this is berrin and welcome to
where it's gonna fit how to make the
perfect restaurant style chili or chana
at home alright so first we're gonna
begin with some pre soaked chickpeas now
generally the soaking time is about six
to eight hours but trust me if you want
to make something amazing then go for at
least 10 hours and remember after
soaking the chickpeas
they should have become a little soft
and if you try to squeeze them they
should easily be able to mash so before
you cook these make sure you drain all
the dirty water and clean your chickpeas
properly but the main problem with
garbanzo beans is that they don't retain
moisture I mean no matter how many
excess pressure cooker whistles you give
your chili or channa will always be dry
from the inside you don't believe me and
just see this I've just pressure cooked
some chickpeas for 12 whistles and let
it be pressurized naturally they've come
out really very soft but if I cut one
open and show you from the inside you
can see that they're really very dry
well you can't take care of this issue
of dryness so in a very famous book
written by mr. Harold McGee he mentioned
that baking soda can reduce the cooking
time of the beans and actually make them
absorb more moisture but the problem
with baking soda is that it leaves a
very bitter taste and that bitterness
can actually be controlled if the
alkaline nature of the baking soda can
be neutralized so let's see a simple
experiment to know more about this well
the pH of your normal distilled water is
very neutral which is actually about
seven and as soon as you add baking soda
to the water you make it
alkaline which increases the pH level of
the water
now this alkaline nature can be
neutralized as soon as you add any kind
of acid which might be vinegar or any
acidic stuff but the problem with
vinegar is that it reacts with baking
soda really quickly and you cannot take
the advantage of that alkaline nature of
baking soda hence comes in your very own
pee well I guess you might know that E
is acidic but a very good property of E
is that it does not react until it's
cooked
you see if I add tea to my normal water
it will never affect the pH of the water
but if I cook the tea and add my baking
soda it will start to react it you see
it releases carbon dioxide but only when
the tea is cooked you can see a cookie
has a lower pH which makes it acetate
and as soon as I add baking soda to it
it neutralizes in fact one other
property of this reaction is that it
releases carbon dioxide and when this
reaction occurs inside a pressure cooker
it increases the pressure on the
chickpeas which results in very soft and
moisture spring Peas
[Music]
alright enough of that boring and long
explanations so now that we know what
all is needed let's begin by first
pressure-cooking our chickpeas but this
time you're gonna add some dried
pomegranate skin or anarchic chilka you
can also replace it by adding some dried
gooseberry also known as Amla then comes
in some teabags and add some water and
make sure the level of water is just
above the chickpeas now this will stop
the excess movement and save them from
creating a mashie chickpea Bertha or you
know totally mashed stuff anyways then
we're gonna add some salt a single
cinnamon stick also known as dal genie
some cloves also known as long 1 black
cardamom also known as buddy Eli tea and
finally to make the reaction perfect
we're gonna add some baking soda so just
pressure cook for 5 to 6 results on a
low flame and after this 5th or 6th
listen make sure you turn the flame off
and let the pressure cooker depressurize
naturally do not remove the vessel
[Music]
so in the meanwhile let's prepare the
other stuff that you're gonna need so
first let's make the spice mix okay so
you just need some coriander powder also
known as tiny a powder some ginger
powder also known as sorta powder some
red chilli powder also known as
enlargements powder we also gonna need
some cumin powder also known as jeera
powder then comes some turmeric powder
also known as haldi powder finally we're
gonna add some garam masala and the most
important masala here is that we're
gonna add some pomegranate seed powder
also known as an art on a powder that's
it you don't need to add anything else
alright we also gonna need some ginger
some green chilies and mammoth-sized
onion you just need to drop it very fine
or you can also grind it in a blender
well apart from costing and other
commercial stuff restaurant level
cooking have to always try to be
consistent but as the taste or the
flavor of tomatoes vary from season to
season and places to places it might be
not a good idea to use it well you can
use it with certain treatments but a
much better solution is some yogurt or
some tomato Beauty a combination of both
these things will always provide
consistent taste and that is why
whenever you go to a restaurant you
always find the same flavors so as we're
gonna use yogurt in the recipe you need
to make sure you strain your yogurt
properly and there are no lumps
otherwise it will not cook properly now
let's check the cooker has it opened up
or not
just on time amazing isn't it well you
can't see night Jenna look looks just
black enough
and apparently same as the store-bought
one but wait what's this
there is no dryness and they're full of
moisture and flavor see the magic of
applying food science the right way now
I'll show you how to cook the masala in
a very different way so just transfer
the chickpeas into a large bowl and add
your masala or spice mix over the
chickpeas gently just try to mix it but
don't overdo it otherwise the beans will
you totally mash so be very gentle and
now to cook these spices I'm gonna heat
up some desi ghee also known as
clarified butter you can also use Venice
petit Yi as well but do not use any
unsaturated fat like your vegetable
cooking oil you just need to make sure
boil is very hot and just as it starts
to smoke pour it over the chickpeas and
the masalas or the spices will cook and
trust me even without the tempering this
combo is just amazing ok it's time to
create the tempering or the masala for
our chole masala so in a large open
mouthed utensil I'm going to add some
oil and to that you're gonna add some
except freedom also known as he and as
soon as you add the Ying add your finely
chopped onions now remember the flame is
at a medium flame you need to cook your
onions properly or basically they are
well done which would be something like
this now I need to achieve this color on
your onions are your yogurt and cook for
about 4 to 5 minutes but the key of the
recipe here is that you need to cook
your yogurt properly alright so are your
ginger-garlic paste
yet tomato Puri and now you need to cook
until the oil starts to separate
finally when the oil has completely
separated add some water and earn the
flame to the lowest and as soon as it
starts boiling you can add our spiced
chickpeas our sliced gingers Antilles
and finally the last ingredient is that
we're gonna add some dried fenugreek
leaves also known as kasoori methi and
that's it so you need to let them cook
for about 15 to 20 minutes on a very low
flame and let all the spices and the
flavors infuse in together so there you
go guys how to make perfect restaurant
like chillies archana's at your home
you'll find all the list of ingredients
and their measurements on my website and
next week I'm gonna show you how to make
these tangy potatoes or cut a a loop and
also next week I'll show you how to make
your very own restaurant style buttery
so if you like this video do give it a
thumbs up for updates and queries you
can like me on Facebook follow me on
Twitter and Google+ and then I'll see
you all next week
[Music]